---
title: Tahnini
technologies: 
    - PHP
    - Symfony
external-url: "http://www.github.com/roysegall/tahini"
image: "images/projects/tahini.png"
shortDescription: "This is the story about the current site"
github: "roysegall/tahini"
ogDescription: "A story on a starter kit for Symfony"
---

#### Background
After I started to work at `Taliaz` we planned on replacing the current architecture. Up until then, their tools were 
developed by a 3rd party company. The products developed in `Yii` and the backend written in another framework 
(which I don't remember) - pretty much a mess.

After working on the products - fixing some bugs, adding some minor features and preparing for some ISO standards - 
we, or should I say me, started to look deeper on how to replace the current architecture. Stay tuned, it's going to be 
very interesting.

#### The idea
We needed to solve one a major problem. You might think that creating an API that can serve any kind of app - desktop, 
mobile, watch etc. - would be the problem. No, any API can do this. We needed to base the API on a framework which 
probably stays relevant for years, and won't be obsolete, or make you twitch your nose once you hear the name, 
like `YII`. 

I looked over the web for the best frameworks. My first choice was `Symfony`. Since version 4 was released a couple of 
months ago it looked like a good choice. Sure, `laravel` or `lumen` were considered, but, when I looked on the 
architecture of `laravel` something felt wrong to me:

* The way you define a router in `symfony` is pretty much easy while in `laravel` you need to define a router manually
(in addition for creating the class of the router).
* Defining a service in `symfony` is very easy - just create the class in the `src` folder and you go to go while in 
`laravel` you need to manually specify it. When injecting a service to another service you need to write more code.
* In `laravel` DB models interactions defined in two places: migration handlers for altering the DB and `php` classes 
for interacting with the `ORM`. In `symfony`, the entity class and the DB modeling happens in one class and the 
migration files generated by a nice command.

Those are three issues that look minor but when I want to develop something I'm looking for writing less code as I 
progress. 

My CTO said to me: "Go for it. Start to write it with `Symfony`". After two weeks I had an API with very basic stuff - 
user authentication based on access token and a couple of entities. Then, I got the bad news: I'm being fired due to 
financial issues the company is struggling with.

After digesting the bad news my CTO told me something good: "You can take the work and open source it. Just remove any 
logic that relates to us". Yes, finally I can give back what I've done to the world. I don't know if someone will use 
it, but it's there.

I named the project§ `tahini` because I love it. `tahini` used me for another project - 
[Financeular](/project/financeular) so the work I did never really went to the trashcan.


#### My two cents on the stack
Well, after working with `Drupal` for a long time, creating a slim API's, DB architecture based on classes, and much 
more was very fun and delightful. I'm pretty sure that this would be a good selection for future products if someone
wants to base their work on `PHP`.

